chore(docs): Update build-caching (#11975)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/docs/build-caching.md

```js:title=gatsby-node.js
exports.onPostBuild = async function(
  { cache, store, graphql },
  { query } ) {
    const cacheKey = 'some-key-name';
    let obj = await cache.get(cacheKey);

    if (!obj) {
      obj = { created: Date.now() };      
      const data = await graphql(query);
      obj.data = data;
    } else if (Date.now() > obj.lastChecked + 3600000) {
      /* Reload after a day */
      const data = await graphql(query);
      obj.data = data;
    }
    
    obj.lastChecked = Date.now();    

    await cache.set(cacheKey, obj);
    
    /* Do something with data ... */
  }
```

## Clearing cache

Since cache files are stored within the `.cache` directory, simply deleting it will clear all cache. You can also use [`gatsby clean`](/docs/gatsby-cli/#clean) to delete the `.cache` and `public` folders.
The cache is also invalidated by Gatsby in a few cases, specifically:

- If `package.json` changes, for example a dependency is updated or added
- If `gatsby-config.js` changes, for example a plugin is added or modified
- If `gatsby-node.js` changes, for example if you invoke a new Node API, or change a `createPage` call

## Conclusion

> With the cache API you're able to persist data between builds which is really helpful while developing a site with Gatsby (as you re-run `gatsby develop` really often). Performance-heavy operations (like image transformations) or downloading data can slow down the bootstrap of Gatsby significantly and adding this optimization to your plugin can be a huge improvement to your end users. You can also have a look at the following examples who implemented the cache API: [gatsby-source-contenful](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/7f5b262d7b5323f1a387b8b7278d9a81ee227258/packages/gatsby-source-contentful/src/download-contentful-assets.js), [gatsby-source-shopify](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/7f5b262d7b5323f1a387b8b7278d9a81ee227258/packages/gatsby-source-shopify/src/nodes.js#L23-L54), [gatsby-source-wordpress](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/7f5b262d7b5323f1a387b8b7278d9a81ee227258/packages/gatsby-source-wordpress/src/normalize.js#L471-L537), [gatsby-transformer-remark](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/7f5b262d7b5323f1a387b8b7278d9a81ee227258/packages/gatsby-transformer-remark/src/extend-node-type.js), [gatsby-source-tmdb](https://github.com/LekoArts/gatsby-source-tmdb/blob/e12c19af5e7053bfb7737e072db9e24acfa77f49/src/add-local-image.js). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the cache API you're able to persist data between builds, which is really helpful while developing a site with Gatsby (as you re-run `gatsby develop` really often). Performance-heavy operations (like image transformations) or downloading data can slow down the bootstrap of Gatsby significantly and adding this optimization to your plugin can be a huge improvement to your end users. You can also have a look at the following examples who implemented the cache API: [gatsby-source-contentful](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/7f5b262d7b5323f1a387b8b7278d9a81ee227258/packages/gatsby-source-contentful/src/download-contentful-assets.js), [gatsby-source-shopify](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/7f5b262d7b5323f1a387b8b7278d9a81ee227258/packages/gatsby-source-shopify/src/nodes.js#L23-L54), [gatsby-source-wordpress](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/7f5b262d7b5323f1a387b8b7278d9a81ee227258/packages/gatsby-source-wordpress/src/normalize.js#L471-L537), [gatsby-transformer-remark](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/7f5b262d7b5323f1a387b8b7278d9a81ee227258/packages/gatsby-transformer-remark/src/extend-node-type.js), [gatsby-source-tmdb](https://github.com/LekoArts/gatsby-source-tmdb/blob/e12c19af5e7053bfb7737e072db9e24acfa77f49/src/add-local-image.js). 
```

issue: https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/8103
---

Plugins can cache data as json objects and retrieve them on consecutive builds.

> Data is stored under the `/.cache/caches/{plugin-name}/` directory.

Reviewer 2: Wouldn't say it's necessary to nest this!

```suggestion
Data is stored in the `.cache` directory relative to your project root.
```

## The cache api

> The cache api is accessible within the arguments object past to [Gatsby's apis](/docs/node-apis/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The cache API is passed to [Gatsby's Node APIs](/docs/node-apis/), which is typically implemented by plugins.
```

```
exports.onPostBootstrap = async function({ cache, store, graphql }) {
```

The two functions you would want to use are:

> ### SET

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### `set`
```

`cache.set(key: String, obj: Object): Promise<any>`

> ### GET

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### `get`
```

> `cache.get(key: String): Promise<Object>`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`cache.get(key: String): Promise<any>`
```

> ## Custom plugin – example

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Plugin Example
```

> In your plugin's `gatsby-node.js` file, on the [Gatsby api](/docs/node-apis/) you wish to utilize cache in, include `cache` as an argument; eg.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In your plugin's `gatsby-node.js` file, you can access the `cache` argument like so:
```

```
exports.onPostBuild = async function(
  { cache, store, graphql },
  { query } ) {
    const cacheKey = 'some-key-name';
    let obj = await cache.get(cacheKey);

    if (!obj) {
      obj = { created: Date.now() };      
      const data = await graphql(query);
      obj.data = data;
    } else if (Date.now() > obj.lastChecked + 3600000) {
      /* Reload after a day */
      const data = await graphql(query);
      obj.data = data;
    }
    
    obj.lastChecked = Date.now();    

    await cache.set(cacheKey, obj);
    
    /* Do something with data ... */
  }
```

> **Note:** Adding an option such as `enableCaching` to your plugin's option could be used to toggle between using caching or not.

Reviewer 2: Let's probably just remove this!

## Clearing cache

Since cache files are stored within the `/.cache/` directory, simply deleting it will clear all cache.

> Otherwise it will also be cleared when there are changes made to you `gatsby-config.js` file

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The cache is also invalidated by Gatsby in a few cases, specifically:

- If `package.json` changes, for example a dependency is updated or added
- If `gatsby-config.js` changes, for example a plugin is added or modified
- If `gatsby-node.js` changes, for example if you invoke a new Node API, or change a `createPage` call
```

> ## Using with Netlify

Reviewer 2: Let's remove this - we've seen a few strange-ish issues and it's generally a premature optimization.

It _can_ help your build, but it can also introduce some strange issues.

Author: @DSchau I actually have been struggling with cache on Netlify, and now that you mention this I am wondering if the "strange-ish" issues you talk of is what I am experiencing. Any ideas on why it doesn't work as expected?

> issue: https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/8103

Reviewer: You can remove the issue here since it will no longer be a stub!

---

Plugins can cache data as json objects and retrieve them on consecutive builds.

Caching is already used by Gatsby and plugins for example:

* any nodes created by source/transformer plugins are cached
* `gatsby-plugin-sharp` caches built thumbnails

Data is stored in the `.cache` directory relative to your project root.

## The cache api

The cache API is passed to [Gatsby's Node APIs](/docs/node-apis/), which is typically implemented by plugins.
```
exports.onPostBootstrap = async function({ cache, store, graphql }) {
```

The two functions you would want to use are:

> ### `set`

Reviewer: Can you describe what these two functions do for those who are new to plugins, particularly when/why you would use them?

`cache.set(key: String, obj: Object): Promise<any>`

### `get`
`cache.get(key: String): Promise<any>`

## Plugin Example

In your plugin's `gatsby-node.js` file, you can access the `cache` argument like so:

```
exports.onPostBuild = async function(
  { cache, store, graphql },
  { query } ) {
    const cacheKey = 'some-key-name';
    let obj = await cache.get(cacheKey);

    if (!obj) {
      obj = { created: Date.now() };      
      const data = await graphql(query);
      obj.data = data;
    } else if (Date.now() > obj.lastChecked + 3600000) {
      /* Reload after a day */
      const data = await graphql(query);
      obj.data = data;
    }
    
    obj.lastChecked = Date.now();    

    await cache.set(cacheKey, obj);
    
    /* Do something with data ... */
  }
```

## Clearing cache

> Since cache files are stored within the `/.cache/` directory, simply deleting it will clear all cache.

Reviewer: You could mention the `gatsby clean` command here.

The cache is also invalidated by Gatsby in a few cases, specifically:

- If `package.json` changes, for example a dependency is updated or added
- If `gatsby-config.js` changes, for example a plugin is added or modified

> - If `gatsby-node.js` changes, for example if you invoke a new Node API, or change a `createPage` call

Reviewer: Is there a wrap-up or conclusion statement you can add to finish this post off?

issue: https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/8103
---

> Plugins can cache data as json objects and retrieve them on consecutive builds.

Reviewer 3: We should also mention a couple other things 

- any nodes created by source/transformer plugins are cached.
- gatsby-plugin-sharp caches built thumbnails
